# Data-Security-using-Steganography--LSB-Algorithm-
Steganography is the art/technique of hiding private or a sensitive information with something unusual. It is maintaining the communication of data confidentially, increasing the security in a non-conventional approach The objective of steganography is to transmit a message from one end to the other through a harmless medium. By doing this the attacks on the message are very less as the attacks will not know what the actual message. Embedding with steganography will produce a better secure data communication. It could be used in different formats such as .gif, .txt, .jpeg, .png, etc   LSB Encoding Algorithm: First the original image, and the compressed encrypted secret message are taken. Then the encrypted secret information has to be converted into binary format. Binary conversion is done by taking the ASCII values of the character and converting them into 54 binary format and generating stream of bits. Similarly, in cover image, bytes representing the pixels are taken in single array and byte stream is generated. Message bits are taken sequentially and then are placed in LSB bit of image byte. Same procedure is followed till all the message bits are placed in image bytes. Image generated is called “Stego-Image”. It is ready for transmission through the Internet.   LSB Decoding Algorithm: First, “Stego-Image” is taken and single array of bytes are generated as it was done at the time of encoding. The total number of bits of encrypted secret information and the bytes representing the 55 pixels of 4stego-image are taken. Counter is initially set to 1, which in turn gives the index number of the pixel byte where secret message bit is available in LSB. The process is continued till final count of secret message bit is reached. After this, the bit stream of the message shall be generated. Available bits are grouped to form bytes such that each byte represents single ASCII character. Characters are stored in text file which represents the encrypted embedded message. After that the decryption and decompression are to be performed.
